
- media conversion (exchange of voice into text and vice versa, e.g. in voice recognition systems), 
- cooperation of media (e.g. audio and video transmission) 

 
In  the  case  of  synchronization  errors  (e.g.  caused  by  reduction  in  available  bandwidth  as  a  result  of  clogged  network)  the 
functionality  of  some multimedia  applications  is  limited. The  best available  solution  is buffering  signals  that  leave  terminals, which 
gives possibility to retry the sequence of data later or temporary stop transmission.  
Rising  interest  and popularization  of multimedia  communication  systems  and  new  applications have  led  to  growing  requirements  in 
relation  to communication networks,  including  the Internet. The most essential parameters which characterize  transmission networks 
and  determine  quality  of  multimedia  services  include  transmission  rate  (bit  rate)  and  required  bandwidth  for  each  application  (see 
Tab. 1 and Tab. 2). 

Table 1.  Bit rates for selected multimedia services 

Services 

Interaction data 
Telephone services 
Interaction graphics 
Videoconferences 
Data (file transfers) 
Video (after compression) 
Video (TV quality) 
Video (HDTV) 
Source: 

Maximal bit rate 
Average bit rate 
[Mbit/s] 
[Mbit/s] 
0,1 
0,0005 
0,64 
0,064 
1 
0,064 
2 
0,4 
100 
1 
10 
2 
34 
20 
134 
100 
Zbigniew Hulicki, Systemy Komunikacji Multimedialnej, WFPT, Kraków, 1998, 

Table 2.  Required bandwidth for different multimedia information 

Media 

Voice 
Audio 
Non-coded text  
Coded text 
Vector graphics 
Bitmap  
(non-coded images) 
Video 

Quality 
minimal accepted 
hi-fi 
80 x 60 characters/page 
80 x 60 characters/page 
500 vector graphics lines 
resolution: 768 x 512, 256 colours, character: 8 
x 8 points 
30 Mbit/s 
Full video, full action (25/30 fps) 
Source: Zbigniew Hulicki, Systemy Komunikacji Multimedialnej, WFPT, Kraków, 1998, 

Minimal bandwith (file size) 
8 kbit/s 
88 kbit/s 
38,4 kbit/s 
18 kbit/page 
3 kbit 
384 kbit per image 

Other  requirements  imposed  on  multimedia  systems  concern  ensuring  adequate  level  of  quality  of  provided  services  (Quality  of 
Service  –  QoS)  (Table  3).  Traditional  information  n etworks  fulfil  these  requirements  only  partially.  ATM  network  (Asynchronous 
Transfer  Mode),  which  is  employed  in  the  case  of  e.g.  switching  of  Internet  broadband  connections  –  pe rfectly  meets  these 
requirements.  

Table 3.   QoS requirements for multimedia services 

QOS 

Voice 


FM  radio  receivers  in mobile  phones,  first  introduced  around  1998,  have 
grown in popularity with the emergence of modern smartphones. Overriding 
early  hesitations, most major  carriers  and manufacturers  are  integrating  FM 
receivers in  their products. Microsoft has endorsed FM, announcing support 
in an update to Windows Phone 8 [4]. Of the nearly 700 million phones sold 
by  Nokia  in  2012  and  2013,  the  two  bestselling  models  (Lumia  520  and 
Lumia 920) now support FM radio. In the Android market, over 450 models 
support  FM  radio  [1]  [2].  FM  receivers  are  also  integrated  in  many  feature 
phones  (low-end  mobile  phones)  and  media  players  (e.g.,  iPod  nano). 

2 
 

This is a slightly revised version of the paper accepted by the 9 th IEEE International 
Conference on Malicious and Unwanted Software (MALCON 2014).  

 
 
Additionally,  legislative  efforts  have  been  made  in  the  US  to  enforce 
integration of FM receivers in mobile phones, for use in emergency situations 
[5] . 
 

2.  Attack Model 
 

The attack model posits that hostile code can be installed and run (a) on the 
targeted  network,  consisting  of  one  computer  or  more  and  (b)  on  mobile 
devices that may reside in the vicinity of the targeted system. With the current 
popularity  of  'Bring  Your  Own  Device'  (BYOD),  mobile  phones  are  often 
carried into and out of the physical perimeter of the organization. 
The attack  is composed of  four main  steps:  (1)  inserting hostile code  into 
the  target  system;  (2)  infecting  mobile  phones  with  hostile  code;  (3) 
establishing a Command and Control (C&C) channel with the mobile phone; 
(4)  detecting  emanated  signals  and  transmitting  them  back  to  the  attacker 
(Figure 1). 
 
 

 
Figure 1: Demonstration of AirHopper. The targeted computer (A) emanates 
radio signals that are picked up by a mobile phone (B).  In this 
demonstration, the distance between (A) and (B) is 4 meters. 

 
 

3 
 

This is a slightly revised version of the paper accepted by the 9 th IEEE International 
Conference on Malicious and Unwanted Software (MALCON 2014).  

 
 
 
2.1   Infecting the Target Machine 
 

Once the air gap barrier is breached, hostile code can infect systems within 
the targeted network. Such breaches are possible, as demonstrated by Stuxnet 
[6] [7] and Agent.btz [8]. It would be reasonable to assume that most similar 
cases  are  unpublished.    Possible  attack  vectors  are  (a)  through  removable 
media or (b) through outsourced software or hardware components. Once the 

